"Using SQL, create a database for a simple todo list program that has the following columns: task_id (primary key), task_name, description, and is_completed."

Create Database simpletodo;

create table simpletodolist
(
task_id int primary key,
task_name  varchar(255),
description varchar(255),
is_completed varchar(150)
);

insert into simpletodolist(task_id, task_name, description, is_completed) values (199, "WorkOut", "Morning Workout at 6 am","yes");

insert into simpletodolist(task_id, task_name, description, is_completed) values (299, "Running", "Morning Running at 8 am","No");

insert into simpletodolist(task_id, task_name, description, is_completed) values (499, "Reading", "Read every day at 7am and 8pm","yes");

insert into simpletodolist(task_id, task_name, description, is_completed) values (799, "Composing", "Music Composing for 1 hour","No");

insert into simpletodolist(task_id, task_name, description, is_completed) values (399, "Meditation", "Meditate for 10 minutes at 5 am","yes");

SELECT * FROM simpletodolist;

select * from simpletodolist where task_name = "Running" AND is_completed = "No";

select * from simpletodolist where task_name = "WorkOut" OR is_completed = "yes";

select * from simpletodolist where task_id between 199 and 399;

select * from simpletodolist where task_id in (399, 499);

select description from simpletodolist order by task_id;

select description from simpletodolist order by task_id desc;


select distinct(task_name) from simpletodolist;

delete from simpletodolist where task_id = 199;


select avg(is_completed) from simpletodolist;

select count(is_completed) from simpletodolist;

select max(task_id) from simpletodolist;

select ucase(task_name) from simpletodolist;

alter table simpletodolist add Address varchar(255);

alter table simpletodolist drop column Address;


truncate table simpletodolist;

drop table simpletodolist;

create table simpletodolist
(
task_id int not null,
task_name  varchar(255),
description varchar(255),
is_completed varchar(154)
);

insert into simpletodolist(task_name, description, is_completed) values ("Reading", "Read every day at 7am and 8pm","yes");

insert into simpletodolist(task_id, task_name, description, is_completed) values (499, "Reading", "Read every day at 7am and 8pm","yes");

drop table simpletodolist; 

create table simpletodolist
(
task_name  varchar(255),
description varchar(255),
is_completed varchar(154),
Age int,
check (age > 21)
);


insert into simpletodolist(task_name, description, is_completed,age) values("Reading", "Read every day at 7am and 8pm","yes", 19);


insert into simpletodolist(task_name, description, is_completed,age) values("Reading", "Read every day at 7am and 8pm","yes", 23);


insert into simpletodolist(task_id, task_name, description, is_completed,age) values(086,"Reading", "Read every day at 7am and 8pm","yes", 23);


alter table simpletodolist add task_id int;
 
drop table simpletodolist;

create table simpletodolist
(
task_id int not null unique,
task_name  varchar(255) ,
description varchar(255),
is_completed varchar(154),
Age int,
check (age > 21)
);

insert into simpletodolist(task_id, task_name, description, is_completed,age) values(086,"Reading", "Read every day at 7am and 8pm","yes", 19);

insert into simpletodolist(task_id, task_name, description, is_completed,age) values(086,"Reading", "Read every day at 7am and 8pm","yes", 23);

drop table simpletodolist;


create table simpletodolist
(
task_id int primary key,
task_name  varchar(255),
description varchar(255),
is_completed varchar(154),
Age int,
check (age > 21)

);


create table simple
(
task_id int,
foreign key(task_id) references simpletodolist(task_id)
);

